Which of the following components is responsible for running JavaScripts embedded in HTML pages?
a) HTML render
b) Plugin Engines
c) Script Engine
d) VB Script Engine
e) None of the above
Answer: c) Script Engine. The script engine is responsible for running JavaScripts embedded in HTML pages.

Which file extension is associated with a PHP page?
a) .html
b) .php
c) .js
d) .css
e) .py
Answer: b) .php. The file extension associated with a PHP page is .php.

What is the role of the PHP interpreter in the PHP page workflow?
a) It displays the HTML page to the user.
b) It checks for the .php file associated with the request.
c) It runs JavaScripts embedded in HTML pages.
d) It interprets the scripting commands in the page.
e) None of the above.
Answer: d) It interprets the scripting commands in the page. The PHP interpreter interprets the scripting commands in the PHP page.

What type of pages are static in nature?
a) PHP pages
b) HTML pages
c) JavaScript pages
d) CSS pages
e) None of the above.
Answer: b) HTML pages. HTML pages are static in nature, meaning the HTTP server will send back the same content as a response regardless of when the page is requested and which client requests the page.

Which of the following is NOT a client-side requirement for viewing a PHP page?
a) Internet connection
b) A web browser
c) PHP interpreter
d) None of the above
e) Both a and c.
Answer: c) PHP interpreter. The PHP interpreter is installed on the server and not required on the client-side.

How does the web server receive the HTML file from the PHP interpreter?
a) By sending a GET request.
b) By forwarding the request and the page to the script engine.
c) By checking for the .php file associated with the request.
d) By interpreting the scripting commands in the PHP page.
e) None of the above.
Answer: e) None of the above. The web server receives the HTML file from the PHP interpreter by simply receiving it from the interpreter.

What type of file can contain embedded JavaScript code?
a) HTML files
b) PHP files
c) CSS files
d) JavaScript files
e) None of the above.
Answer: a) HTML files. HTML files can contain embedded JavaScript code.

What is the purpose of a script engine in the client-server architecture?
a) To receive the request for pages specified by the pages' URL.
b) To generate an HTML page and send it to the HTTP server.
c) To run plugin applications/objects embedded in HTML pages.
d) To interpret scripting commands in a PHP page.
e) None of the above.
Answer: d) To interpret scripting commands in a PHP page. The script engine is responsible for interpreting scripting commands in a PHP page.


What is the purpose of the following PHP code?
php
Copy code
$name = "Wei Gong";
a. Assign the value "Wei Gong" to the variable $name.
b. Create a new function named "Wei Gong".
c. Print the value of "Wei Gong" to the browser.
d. Delete the "Wei Gong" variable.

Answer: a. Assign the value "Wei Gong" to the variable $name.

What is the output of the following PHP code?
html
Copy code
<html>
<head>
<title>Simple PHP document</title>
</head>
<body style = "font-size: 2em">
<p>
<strong>
Welcome to PHP, !
</strong>
</p>
</body>
</html>
a. Welcome to PHP, Wei Gong!
b. Welcome to PHP, !
c. Simple PHP document
d. An error message

Answer: b. Welcome to PHP, !

What does the phrase "Strip PHP elements" mean in the context of the PHP Engine Output?
a. Removing PHP code from the output string.
b. Removing the HTML code from the output string.
c. Removing both PHP and HTML code from the output string.
d. Stripping whitespace characters from the output string.
Answer: a. Removing PHP code from the output string.

How would you execute PHP code in a PHP file?
a. Open the PHP file in a web browser.
b. Open the PHP file in a text editor.
c. Run the PHP file in a terminal or command prompt.
d. Execute the PHP code from within an HTML file.
Answer: a. Open the PHP file in a web browser.

What is the purpose of inserting output back to a stripped PHP page?
a. To create a backup of the PHP page.
b. To improve the security of the PHP page.
c. To display data generated by PHP code on the web page.
d. To reduce the size of the PHP page.
Answer: c. To display data generated by PHP code on the web page.

After processing by the PHP engine, where can the output string be sent?
a. To an external database.
b. To a file on the web server's file system.
c. To the browser that made the request.
d. All of the above.
Answer: c. To the browser that made the request.

Which PHP functions generate an output string?
a. echo
b. print
c. printf
d. All of the above.
Answer: d. All of the above.

What is the output of the following PHP code?
html
Copy code
<html>
<head>
<title> Example Two </title>
</head>
<body>
<?php
$first_num = 12;
$second_num = 356;
print ("first_num= $first_num <br> <em>second_num=$second_num </em>");
?>
</body>
</html>
a. first_num= 12 second_num=356
b. Example Two
c. first_num= <br> second_num=<em>
d. An error message

Answer: a. first_num= 12 second_num=356

What is the purpose of the concatenate operator "." in PHP?
a. To add two numbers together.
b. To combine two separate string variables into one.
c. To compare two strings for equality.
d. To assign a string value to a variable.
Answer: b. To combine two separate string variables into one.

Which PHP function generates an output string?
a. rand()
b. count()
c. printf()
d. for()
Answer: c. printf()

What is the output of the following code snippet?
php
Copy code
<?php
$num = 10;
echo ' $num is a variable <br/> ';
echo "its value is $num <br/>";
?>
a. $num is a variable its value is $num
b. $num is a variable its value is 10
c. 10 is a variable its value is $num
d. 10 is a variable its value is 10

Answer: b. $num is a variable its value is 10

What is the result of the following concatenation?
bash
Copy code
$firstname = "Wei";
$lastname = "Gong";
$fullname = $firstname . " " . $lastname;
print("Full Name: $fullname <br/>");
a. Full Name: WeiGong
b. Full Name: Wei Gong
c. Full Name: Wei $lastname
d. Full Name: $firstname Gong

Answer: b. Full Name: Wei Gong

Which character is used to escape a double quote inside a double quoted string in PHP?
a.
b. '
c. "
d. $
Answer: a. \

What is the correct syntax for a "here document" in PHP?
a. print <<<[BOUNDARY_MARKER]
[Text to be printed]
[BOUNDARY_MARKER];
b. echo <<<[BOUNDARY_MARKER]
[Text to be printed]
[BOUNDARY_MARKER];

c. print <<<[BOUNDARY_MARKER]
[Text to be printed]
[BOUNDARY_MARKER];

d. echo <<<[BOUNDARY_MARKER]
[Text to be printed]
[BOUNDARY_MARKER];

Answer: c. print <<<[BOUNDARY_MARKER]
[Text to be printed]
[BOUNDARY_MARKER];

What is the output of the following code snippet?
javascript
Copy code
<?php
$name1 = "Wei Gong";
$phone1 = "613 261-7355";
$email1 = "wei.gong@algonquincollege.com";
$name2 = "John Smith";
$phone2 = "613 231-4321";
$email2 = "John.Smith@abc.com";
$name3 = "Mary Davison";
$phone3 = "613 123-3344";
$email3 = "MaryD@abc.ca";

print <<<EOD
<table border='1'>
<tr><th>Name</th><th>Phone</th><th>Email</th></tr>
<tr><td>$name1</td><td>$phone1</td><td>$email1</td></tr>
<tr><td>$name2</td><td>$phone2</td><td>$email2</td></tr>
<tr><td>$name3</td><td>$phone3</td><td>$email3</td></tr>
</table>
EOD;
?>
a. Displays a table with the names, phone numbers, and emails of three people
b. Displays an error because the "here document" syntax is incorrect
c. Does not display any output
d. Displays an error because the variables are not defined

Answer: a. Displays a table with the names, phone numbers, and emails of three people.
How can you access the values of a form element in PHP after submitting a form using the post method?
A. $_GET[formElementName]
B. $_POST[formElementName]
C. $_REQUEST[formElementName]
D. $_COOKIE[formElementName]
Answer: B. $_POST[formElementName]

Which HTML element can be used to allow multiple selections in a form?
A. input type="text"
B. input type="radio"
C. input type="checkbox"
D. select multiple
Answer: D. select multiple

What is the purpose of adding [ ] to the name attribute of checkboxes with the same name?
A. To group the checkboxes together for styling purposes
B. To separate the checkboxes so that only one can be checked at a time
C. To indicate that the checkboxes are required
D. To create an array of checked values in $_POST or $_GET
Answer: D. To create an array of checked values in $_POST or $_GET

What is the purpose of the count() function in the following code snippet?
bash
Copy code
$language = $_POST["lang"];
echo "<h3>You speak ". count($language). " language(s). </h3>";
A. To display the total number of checkboxes on the form
B. To display the number of checkboxes that were checked
C. To display the total number of languages selected in the form
D. To display the number of characters in the input field

Answer: C. To display the total number of languages selected in the form

What is the output of the following code snippet when the "English" and "German" checkboxes are checked and the form is submitted?
php
Copy code
<form method="post" action="form2.php">
Select the language(s) you speak:
<input type="checkbox" name="lang[]" value="en">English<br />
<input type="checkbox" name="lang[]" value="fr">French<br />
<input type="checkbox" name="lang[]" value="ge">German<br />
<input type="checkbox" name="lang[]" value="cn">Chinese<br />
</form>
<?php
$language = $_POST["lang"];
echo "<h3>You speak ". count($language). " language(s). </h3>";
echo "They are: <br/>";
foreach($language as $lang )
{
echo "$lang<br/>";
}
if (in_array("cn", $language))
{
echo "You even speak Chinese!";
}
?>
A. You speak 2 language(s). They are: English, German.
B. You speak 2 language(s). They are: English, French.
C. You speak 3 language(s). They are: English, German, Chinese. You even speak Chinese!
D. You speak 4 language(s). They are: English, French, German, Chinese.

Answer: A. You speak 2 language(s). They are: English, German.

Which global variable in PHP contains data about the currently running server?
A. $_SERVER
B. $_ENV
C. $_GET
D. $_COOKIE
Answer: A. $_SERVER

What is the purpose of the $_ENV global variable in PHP?
A. To store data about the currently running server
B. To store data about the client's environment
C. To store data sent to the server by a post request
D. To store data contained in cookies on the client's computer
Answer: B. To store data about the client's environment

What is the difference between the $_POST and $_REQUEST global variables in PHP?



Qasinow
continue from question 8
Which of the following code snippets correctly retrieves the value of a select element with the name attribute "colors" using the $_POST superglobal array in PHP?
a. $color = $_POST['colors'];
b. $color = $_GET['colors'];
c. $color = $_POST['color'];
d. $color = $_GET['color'];

Answer: c. $color = $_POST['color'];
Explanation: The correct syntax for accessing the value of a form element with the name attribute "colors" using the $_POST superglobal array in PHP is $_POST['colors']. Option a is correct, but it has a typo and uses the wrong variable name ("colors" instead of "color"). Options b and d are incorrect because they use the wrong superglobal array ("$_GET" instead of "$_POST").

What is the purpose of the foreach loop in the following code snippet?
php
Copy code
$language = $_POST["lang"];
foreach($language as $lang) {
  echo "$lang<br/>";
}
a. To iterate over the values of the $language array and print them to the screen.
b. To count the number of languages selected by the user.
c. To check if the language "cn" is in the $language array.
d. To create a new array with only the English and French languages.

Answer: a. To iterate over the values of the $language array and print them to the screen.
Explanation: The purpose of the foreach loop is to iterate over the values of the $language array and print them to the screen. The loop assigns each value in the array to the variable $lang and then uses echo to print it to the screen with a line break. Option b is incorrect because the loop does not count the number of languages selected by the user (that is done earlier in the code with count($language)). Option c is incorrect because the loop does not check if the language "cn" is in the $language array. Option d is incorrect because the loop does not create a new array with only the English and French languages (that would require additional code).

Which of the following global variables in PHP contains data about the currently running server?
a. $_ENV
b. $_SERVER
c. $_POST
d. $_GET

Answer: b. $_SERVER

What does the regular expression \S match?
a) A whitespace
b) A non-whitespace
c) A special character
d) A digit
Answer: b

Code snippet:

bash
Copy code
$regex = "/\S/";
$string = "Hello World!";
if (preg_match($regex, $string)) {
  echo "Match found!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found!";
}
What does the regular expression pattern+ match?
a) The pattern 0 or more times
b) The pattern 1 or more times
c) The pattern 0 or 1 time
d) The pattern exact n times
Answer: b

Code snippet:

bash
Copy code
$regex = "/a+/i";
$string1 = "aaa";
$string2 = "bb";
if (preg_match($regex, $string1)) {
  echo "Match found for string1!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found for string1!";
}
if (preg_match($regex, $string2)) {
  echo "Match found for string2!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found for string2!";
}
What does the regular expression pattern{n} match?
a) The pattern 0 or more times
b) The pattern 1 or more times
c) The pattern 0 or 1 time
d) The pattern exact n times
Answer: d

Code snippet:

bash
Copy code
$regex = "/a{3}/i";
$string1 = "aaa";
$string2 = "aa";
if (preg_match($regex, $string1)) {
  echo "Match found for string1!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found for string1!";
}
if (preg_match($regex, $string2)) {
  echo "Match found for string2!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found for string2!";
}
What does the regular expression ^ match?
a) The start of the string
b) The end of the string
c) A whitespace
d) A non-whitespace
Answer: a

Code snippet:

bash
Copy code
$regex = "/^abc/i";
$string1 = "abc123";
$string2 = "123abc";
if (preg_match($regex, $string1)) {
  echo "Match found for string1!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found for string1!";
}
if (preg_match($regex, $string2)) {
  echo "Match found for string2!";
} else {
  echo "Match not found for string2!";
}
What is the difference between preg_match and preg_match_all?
a) preg_match returns the number of matches found, preg_match_all returns the text that matched the full pattern.
b) preg_match returns 1 if find a match, preg_match_all returns the number of matches found.
c) preg_match returns the text that matched the full pattern, preg_match_all returns a two dimension array filled with the results of search.
d) preg_match returns the text that matched the full pattern, preg_match_all returns the number of matches found.
Answer: c

Code snippet:

php
Copy code
$regex = "/[0-9]+/";
$string = "I have 123 apples and 456 bananas";
$num1 = preg_match($regex, $string, $matches1);
$num2 = preg_match_all($regex, $string, $matches2);
echo "preg_match found $num1 match(es), the match is " . $matches1[0] . "<br/>";
echo "preg_match_all found $num2 match(es), the matches are: <br/>";
foreach ($matches2[0] as $match) {
  echo $match .



Qasinow
please contiue from question 5 above
Sure, here are two more multiple choice questions with answers and code snippets:

What does the following regular expression match?
css
Copy code
/[A-Z][a-z]+\s[A-Z][a-z]+/
a) Any word that starts with a capital letter
b) Any string that contains two capitalized words separated by a space
c) Any sequence of two uppercase letters followed by one or more lowercase letters

Answer: b)

Code snippet:

bash
Copy code
$regex = "/[A-Z][a-z]+\s[A-Z][a-z]+/";
$string = "John Smith";
if (preg_match($regex, $string)) {
  echo "Match found!";
} else {
  echo "No match found.";
}
What does the following regular expression match?
css
Copy code
/^([A-Z][a-z]+)+$/
a) Any word that starts with a capital letter
b) Any string that contains one or more capitalized words separated by a space
c) Any sequence of one or more capitalized words

Answer: c)